Now that we know that signals are made up of different frequency components,
we can learn about a new property of sampling theory, the Nyquist frequency.
The Nyquist frequency tells us that when we sample an analog signal,
depending on the frequency components it's made up of,
there are restrictions on how fast our sampling rate needs to be.
Let's see a graphical explanation of this.
Here we have a continuous one hertz sinusoid,
this blue line, and then the blue dots are a digital sampled version of that sinusoid.
Our sampling rate is 10 hertz because we have 10 of these dots per second.
As we increase the frequency of the sinusoid,
we can see we get fewer and fewer samples per period of the sinusoid,
up until a point where we get exactly two points per period,
one at the peak and one at the trough.
This point is known as the Nyquist frequency.
The Nyquist frequency is always going to be half of our sampling rate.
So because our sampling rate is at 10 hertz,
our Nyquist frequency is at five hertz.
What happens when the frequency of
the signal we are sampling exceeds the Nyquist frequency?
Well, here we have a sinusoid at six hertz,
and below that we have a sinusoid at four hertz.
The digital sampled versions of both of these signals look exactly the same.
So this is the problem when the analog signal you're
sampling exceeds the Nyquist frequency for your sampling rates.
We can't know what the true frequency of
that signal actually was because once we could lose the analog signal,
and we're just left with our digital sampled version of it,
we don't know, in this case,
if it were six hertz or four hertz.
So when you exceed the Nyquist frequency,
the pattern that shows up in the digital signal is the same
as one that would show up at a mirrored frequency below the Nyquist frequency.
For example, here, 5.4 hertz is 0.4 hertz above five hertz,
and 4.6 hertz is 0.4 hertz below five hertz.
So any analog signal that you're sampling is going to have a maximum bandwidth,
and this is the frequency of the highest frequency component in your signal.
You want to make sure that your sampling rate is at least twice that,
so that no part of the signal you're sampling is faster than the Nyquist frequency.
Sometimes it's not obvious what the Nyquist frequency is for your signal,
and we basically figure this out by looking at the literature and
seeing what other people have done for that same signal.
These topics are non-intuitive at first,
and so if you're confused, that's okay.
Try watching this video again to let some of
the information sink in and make sure to check out the further resources.
Definitely, feel free to download these notebooks and
play around with them to explore these ideas some more.